	The MonoMartyrs Seek Revenge
	A free-play extension for the ZRP

While in the Cordon after dealing with the Monolith at the 
center of the Zone, you receive a transmission from the 
Barkeep: 

"Marked One! You're still alive! It was you, wasn't it? The 
last I saw of your PDA signal was from the very center of 
the Zone, and now the Zone is changing; there are no more 
new anomalies forming. And some of the Monolith have been 
giving up and turning themselves in, claiming no knowledge 
of what they have been doing the past few months or years. 
It's a miracle, something I don't believe in -- but that 
doesn't change it! 

"What did you do? Wait -- I must tell you something 
important: Not all the Monolith have come to their senses, 
and my agents have reported meeting several calling 
themselves the Monolith's Martyrs. They move freely among 
other stalkers, declaring openly their intent to kill the 
destroyer of their life's purpose. That has to be you! 

"One agent reported seeing one of these "MonoMartyrs" calmly 
tear apart an attacking gray pseudodog with his hands, 
taking very little damage in the encounter that should have 
killed him. 

"I'll let you know more as I learn it. I owe you that much, 
and more. Please take care, Marked One!" 

Followup transmission: 

"Marked One - here's a bit of news: The MonoMartyrs can be 
killed, although it might not seem possible. A stalker found 
the body of one, surrounded by a large number of mutant 
corpses. His weapon was useless, but it apparently worked 
well enough to take out the mutants. But -- get this -- he 
had an artifact on him! Now that the controlling agency is 
no longer in place, maybe they have access to the Monolith 
collection. 

The Zone is definitely changing..." 

=================================== 

*Blast! It's not over. Now I find out the powers-that-were 
were making super-soldiers, creatures with little or no 
awareness of pain and a much greater tolerance for damage 
before they succumb. Now they are just about everywhere, 
with gauss weapons and sniper rifles and the toughest bodies 
this side of hell.* 

=================================== 

The MonoMartyrs Seek Revenge is a mini-mod intended to show 
that modders don't need to modify NPC mesh files with a hex 
editor to create tougher NPCs. This first pass is more of a 
proof-of-concept than a refined product, but it works well 
enough as is. 

You can modify some settings for the MonoMartyrs. You can 
disable MonoMartyr spawning if you want to play without the 
bother. Or you can set the maximum number that spawn on each 
level, as well as the number that spawn in specific 
locations. You can also set the amount of notifications you 
receive -- how many alive on the level, and/or when each one 
dies. 

The MonoMartyrs add something new to the ZRP free play mode 
beyond just toughness. You have a chance of finding a useful 
artifact on their bodies in levels below Red Forest, and 
they bring advanced weaponry ammo (e.g., gauss, sniper 
rounds) to most of the early levels. Of course, to search 
their bodies, they must be dead, first... :) 
