===========================
Quirks in the vanilla game:
===========================

=========================================
For the latest version of this list, see:
http://www.metacognix.com/stlkrsoc/QuirksInTheGame.html
=========================================

Dying while the controller's roar is playing will not remove the 
roar when you reload the last save made on that level. The 
workaround is to exit the game completely and restart the game, 
or go to another level. (As of ZRP 1.07 R3 the controller roar 
will quiet down after you are killed. Wait a moment before 
loading the last save if told to do so.)

Conversely, the rain sound will be disabled if you change levels. 

Going up or down ladders will put your assault weapon away on 
most levels. If you are changing levels, then this means that you 
will enter the new level with binoculars instead of the weapon 
you were holding. To prevent this, equip a first-slot weapon or 
jump into a hole to change levels. 

Some NPC bodies will fly violently across the map when they die. 
This is due to a collision detection correction performed by the 
physics engine; it pushes the body violently away from the spot 
of the collision. This can be caused by impact or the sudden 
addition or removal of inventory from the NPC. 

A related collision-detection issue can occur when you are struck 
by a pseudodog on a leap. You might be flung violently into the 
air. This can be reduced by lowering the pseudodog's 
Accel_Aggressive parameter in config\creatures\m_pseudodog.ltx. 
(This is already reduced in the ZRP. A Modifier program option 
for Pseudodog Acceleration is planned.) 

Some NPC bodies will drop through the ground when they die. They 
might reappear moments later, or when you move over them. If not, 
center your HUD white spot over the grey spot of the missing 
stalker, crouch, and slowly rotate around while looking down. 
When you are over the body, you will see a "Search body" prompt. 
You can pick up the body and drag it to a spot where it will stay 
above the surface, or you can simply search it. 

Sometimes you will accomplish a quest without doing anything, as 
targets die by other causes (e.g., mutants kill bandits or 
mercs).

Some autoquests will become completed due to gulag state 
changes, as when the camp switches from daytime status to 
nighttime. (Most if not all are fixed as of ZRP 1.07 R4.)

Conversely, sometimes you will fail a quest because of Alife 
traffic. For example, certain bandits might be escorting a 
prisoner by design, but Alife bandits moving to another area see 
that prisoner as an enemy and shoot him. Or you come upon the 
Cordon bridge guards when they are engaged in battle, so they 
shoot at you, too, even though they normally would let you speak 
to them first. Workaround: Avoid the area for a while, to let the 
threat pass by so that the game can return to normal. 

There are also some arbitrary rules which can cause a task 
failure. For example, going south of the farmstead west of the 
Freedom base will automatically fail any pending Freedom tasks.
(This last was fixed as of ZRP 1.07 R3 post Skull's group.) 

Some places have invisible walls and ceilings. For examples, see 
Pripyat, or throw a grenade from the hills north of the entrance 
to the Agroprom level toward the tall trees. 

It is possible to become afflicted with permanent radiation 
sickness. It happens on the outer areas of the map where the devs 
do not want you to go. It also happens on the south side of the 
Garbage train tunnel. While you can eliminate the damage from 
radiation, you will still receive a hitch in walking or running 
every second. (This problem is now automatically fixed in ZRP 
1.07 when you save then reload that save.)

A grenade or other explosive might temporarily mess up the 
animation of NPCs so that they appear to "slide" as they move -- 
they're walking, but the animation isn't working. 

Over time, some permanent corpses will stretch out. You can fix a 
stretched NPC by picking up the body and dropping it. 

Stuff that is "in boxes" is created when the box is broken -- 
except that it might not become physical enough before dropping 
through the floor where the box was resting. Electro artifacts 
like the Moonlight can be created when some crates are broken, 
but you won't know this if you break the crate between 5 a.m and 
midnight. Sometimes items fall out of the level when spawned, but 
will reappear when you return to the area later.

(Note: These crate/box issues should be mostly a thing of the 
past as of ZRP 1.07.)

Related to this is the disappearance of items that are in contact 
with the ground.  Examples are the RG6 grenade launcher and the 
special artifacts in Red Forest.  You can pull them out of the 
ground with a debug command as a temporary workaround. There is 
also a debug command to bump bodies and boxes that are invisible 
due to their contact with the ground.

Sometimes stalkers go online in a "zone fugue" state; they just 
stand there, usually near a campfire. Go out of "switch distance" 
(default is 150 meters) to switch them offline. This usually 
resets the problem stalker. (They snap out of it as of ZRP 
1.07 R4.)

Using a save made while in a psi-emission field (with that yellow 
grainy screen) will double the audio and visual effect when it is 
reloaded. (Fixed as of ZRP 1.07 R4.)

On rare occasions you will not be able to select items in grids 
when searching NPCs. A quicksave/quickload should fix this. 

The Duty equivalent of the SEVA suit has a quirk that prevents 
you from carrying bodies.  (Fixed as of ZRP 1.05 R11/ZRP 1.07)

Active night vision is not preserved on level changes and reloads 
of previous saves, and is turned off when you pick up a suit. 

If you go back to the Bar after rescuing Kruglov (so that he 
makes it to Yantar) without going to visit Sakharov first, you 
won't get the "real scientist's suit". (Fixed as of ZRP 1.07 R3)

Some resolutions (800x600 for sure, and maybe 1440x900) don't 
display text announcements reliably. You can try a different 
resolution to see if that helps. 

NPCs as of patch 1.0004 will often hide a food or drink item 
for a time.  If you search a body and remove its inventory, it 
is possible to find a food or drink item on it later.  Likewise, 
sometimes the first food item you store on a body will disappear 
for a while.


