
ZRP 1.05 Test r10 - 2008/05/02 -
  All.spawn changes (requires new game):
      Vanilla typos/errors reported by Alex-Tommy, barin, EggChen fixed.
      Shaggy is less likely to accidentally free himself.
      Rostok camera fly-by doesn't happen if you already dealt with mercs.
      Cap's Barrier news message isn't doubled.
      You can get the code to the Red Forest codelocked door.
      Yantar tunnel roar corresponds to beast spawn.
  Other bug fixes and tweaks:
      Stadium marker removed after task completion.
      Quest Overhaul now has ecologists quests corrected in config, not text.
      "Good" ending goes to credits if you didn't start a new ZRP-based game.
      If ammo section missing from death_generic.ltx, dunin_ammo logs complaint.
      You can find high-end artifacts on NPC bodies (1 in 200) per Alex-Tommy.
      Tushkano now has encyclopedia entry, thanks to Mr. Fusion.
      Other minor text tweaks.
  Modifier updates:
      You can disable the in-game fly-by cutscenes (requires new game).
      The Real Gun Names option now show the ampersand (&) in H&K.
      You can enable the sale of some guns to NPCs as well as ammo.
      New Experimental configuration; see smart terrain spots.
  Many more TZIO and Free Play tweaks. Some require a new game.

r9 - 2008/04/19 - 
  Free Play tweaks (*=Requires new game):
      Moved end-game teleport.*  Current free-play teleport still supported.
      Removed Freedom-killing info_portion.*
  TZIO tweaks:
      New chapter images from TSL16b.  Perfect!
      You can now talk to Barkeep with just the WT loadout.
      The reticle is restored after C-Con conversation without a save/reload.
  carbody_new_16.xml is now internationalized per TSL16b.
  More Modifier options:
      Decane's Quest Overhaul (lite version) included.
      EggChen's tweak for fire dynamic lighting in misc\zone_kampfire.ltx.
      Real Gun Names, based on info published by Kyodan and Brood_98.
      Show first-shot weapon accuracy stats.
      More control of secret info.
      You can turn off the NPP earthshaking.
      You can reduce the frequency of ambient sounds loaded/played.
      You can cancel CGI cutscene movies by pressing ESC. (Not fully tested.)
  Anti-rad hotkey no longer requires debug mode.
  Workaround tweaks (*=Requires debug mode enabled):
      Better eventual removal of left-over markers.  (Please report any still left!)
      ESC D F now always "teleports" you two meters ahead to get past that idiot NPC.*
      You no longer need to save the game to fix the X-18 entrance door.*
  New all.spawn changes (requires new game):
      Moved final level changer, added teleport for Free Play, tweaked some triggers.
  Improved modding support:
      Better file organization for mod support.
      You can snapshot your position and have it added temporarily to the jump dialog.
      The snapshot data is logged for copy/pasting into _custom_zrp.script.
      More predefined intra-level jump locations in optional\_custom_zrp.script.

r8 - 2008/04/06 -
  Added TSL16b's teleport dialog for "The Zone Is Open" feature.
  Added intra-zone jump dialog.  Jump locations are customizable.
  Fixed Italian translation text file which caused a crash.
  More Free Play tweaks, more TZIO tweaks.
  Added "Show Zombies on mini-hud" Modifier option.

r7 - 2008/03/28 -
  Hunting Shotgun quest fix (missing files included).
  Tweaked "The Zone Is Open" feature a bit (Dark Valley freeplay, X16 start).
  Included trade_generic.ltx.npc_ammo to permit equipping NPCs.
  Added stable_task_manager.xml change to ZRP_105_TextChangeNotes.txt. 

r6 - 2008/03/20 -
  "The Zone Is Open" - See gamedata\docs\TheZoneIsOpen.txt.
  Fixed helicopter behavior in Yantar.
  The TOZ-34 is now the hunting shotgun if you start a new game.
  Added zambien and Shadow State tweaks to Raw's WS stuff.
  Test tweak for Seriy post Agroprom.

r5 - 2008/03/06 -
  Added Raw's WS tweak.  Retweaked 16x12 screens per fitzroy_doll.
  Fixed Modifier bogus error msg, 800x600 suit stats error.
  Mole now stays at the "well" after you talk to him.

r4 - 2008/02/26 - No more free repairs or lights shining out of the ground. One more screen option.
r3 - 2008/02/22 - There are more trade/search screen options; anti-rad hotkey and debug fixed.
r2 - 2008/02/15 - The Modifier program now has support for checkboxes.
r1 - 2008/02/14 - Removed screen support (textures were missing) and fixed missing actor reference.
r0 - 2008/02/12 - initial release - see fix list below.

******************************************************************************
*******  2008/02/08  Changes in the 1.05 ZRP Test R0 update: ******* 
******************************************************************************

"The Zone Is Open" features a way to start the game anywhere.  It includes a
rudimentary free-play option.  See gamedata\docs\TheZoneIsOpen.txt.

Army Warehouses merc waypoint crash fixed. (Requires new game.)

Sakharov and Kruglov/Semenov no longer repeat their discussions.

Kruglov/Semenov no longer blocks the bunker door in Yantar.

Mole no longer repeats his "rescue" after you talk to him at the well.

The dialog with Seriy doesn't flash back to asking about Strelok post Agroprom.

Strelok quest completion notification is now more timely.

1.0004/1.0005/1.0006 compatibility installed by default.

Task relationship negatives are now processed correctly.

NPC torches (flashlights) are no longer added to the quest target list.  Also,
they should not shine out of the ground any longer during the day.

More secrets and tasks and Red Forest snorks fixed, thanks to omero.  Also,
Wolf won't give you tasks after he moves on.

Task manager is more configurable.  Options include the basic Quest Overhaul by 
Decane.

For some of the following workarounds: Enable the ZRP debug mode by setting the 
zrp_debug_enabled variable to true in _z.script*, then press ESC, D to toggle 
the mode.  This puts debug info on the game's screen.

Broken Sidorovich trader door workaround included:  Press ESC, J in the Cordon 
to get the Jump menu.  Select Sidorovich to jump to his office.  From there 
you should be able to push open the door from the inside.

If that doesn't get you out of Sid's office:  Debug mode must be enabled. 
Face the trader door and press ESC D F.  You will be outside Sid's office. 
(This works going both ways.  Just stand in front of the door.)  Warning:  
Save your game first!  This teleport is dangerous; it is possible to fall out 
of the map if misused.  If you are going to use it, copy over the optional 
script file _custom_zrp.script from the scripts\optional directory to the 
scripts directory to enable the "Last Position" feature -- and you can also 
temporarily record your locations with ESC P; see below.

Broken X18 Lab entrance workaround included: Debug mode must be enabled, and 
you must have the keys from Barkeep and Borov. Face the X18 Lab entrance door 
and press ESC followed by F.  You will receive credit for the objective, and 
you will be given a new one.  And the door will be gone.

Broken Duty prison cell door workaround included: Debug mode must be enabled. 
Face the cell door from within two meters, then press Esc followed by F.  You 
will be told to use your knife to break the door open, but you will have or 
shortly get credit for completing the task.

Everywhere else, ESC D F will teleport you ahead two meters.  This will allow 
you to get past NPCs that block your path, or look inside doors that cannot be 
opened.  WARNING:  This is very dangerous!  Be sure to save your game before 
attempting this.  If you copy over the optional script file _custom_zrp.script, 
you will be able to press ESC P prior to ESC D F in order to snapshot your 
position for returning to it via ESC J.  See the file TheZoneIsOpen.txt in the 
gamedata\docs\ subdirectory.

Optional Screw and Capt. Ivantsov repair.  Enable by setting the variables 
allow_screw_repair/allow_ivantsov_repair to true in dialogs_military.script.*

Busted-crate spawns are less likely to fall through the floor.

Tushkano beep fix.

Ammo aggregation and anomaly evasion options included.

Better internationalization support.  See docs\ZRP_105_TextChangeNotes.txt.

Better Smart Mod Manager compatibility.

*You can use the Modifier program to make these changes.


******************************************************************************
*******  2007/11/16  Changes in the 1.04c ZRP update: ******* 
******************************************************************************

Note:  The 1.04c release was separately updated for SMM support and automatic 
compatibility with either 1.0004 or 1.0005/6.

This is a maintenance update to support 1.0005.  There are some caveats:

The gamedata\config\system.ltx file has a parameter under [script] called 
current_server_entity_version.  This must be 6 when saving and loading games 
under 1.0004, and 7 when saving/loading under 1.0005.  NO EXCEPTIONS!  These 
are defaults in the normal patch installations, but some mods supply their 
own versions.

Be careful when using the configuration tool to modify actor.ltx.  You will 
need to choose the correct version of system.ltx corresponding to your patch 
version.  While you can easily change the parameter above, using Revert 
might restore the old version with the wrong value of the parameter.  Please 
check this before you play the game!

While 1.0004 saved games can be loaded into 1.0005, there is no backward 
compatibility; 1.0005 games will not load properly into 1.0004.


******************************************************************************
*******  2007/11/09  Changes in the 1.04 ZRP update: ******* 
******************************************************************************

A new Modifier program is included to permit the quick selection of custom 
options.  It is in the gamedata directory.  Just double-click it in Windows 
Explorer to run it.  Select the configuration file at the top, then select 
options from the list on the left.  Hover over fields for notes.  Select 
"Apply" to install the changes, "Revert" to restore the previous changes, and 
"Default" to restore the system default configuration for the option.  NOTE: 
The program modifies files in the gamedata subdirectory, which will likely 
require admin or power-user privileges.

The Dark Valley scam jeering no longer repeats after the first sale. (Requires 
new game.)

Skull's group no longer repeats the examination and remarks over the bodies of 
the Freedom group as you enter the Army Warehouses level from the Bar. 
(Requires new game.)

You can now set the default idle time delay before a task can be re-offered.

A scrollbar slider button issue on searches was corrected, thanks to Fatrap.

A vanilla Dark Valley NPC hearing problem was fixed, thanks to omero.

A crash in vanilla that occurs when one does not defend the border from the 
Monolith and then leaves and returns to the area, was fixed.

A rare "job not found" crash was fixed.

This version defaults to an experience that is more "vanilla" than previous 
versions.  Please use the Modifier program to further customize the game to 
your liking, or see the ZRP_ModdingNotes.txt file to do it manually.


******************************************************************************
*******  2007/10/17  Changes in the 1.03 ZRP update: ******* 
******************************************************************************

Tuskanos are now considered enemies by human NPCs.  A missing comma was added 
to game_relations.ltx based on info found by Fatrap on the Russian forum.

The right-hand grid on searches now has more squares.

The hint on the Red Forest antennae location marker has been corrected.

Reduced the alertness range of most of the Cordon factory bandits to stop them 
from being more interested in the bridge soldiers than the attackers amongst 
them.  This may need tweaking, and other situations will likely arise needing 
similar attention.

More info in a smaller, cleaner format on the optional debug display.

Special thanks to Fatrap, Decane and silverpower for input to this update.


******************************************************************************
*******  2007/10/14  Changes in the 1.02 ZRP release: ******* 
******************************************************************************

Fixed an occasional crash when taking the documents from Ghost.  The game gives 
you credit for doing so when you search Ghost, and then again when you actually 
take the documents, and the news manager would attempt to output a non-existent 
objective.  This was sometimes just garbage, and sometimes even a CTD.

Made the gameplay character files optional.  The  flashlights-in-the-floor fix 
didn't work; the disconnected lights belong to the flashlights the NPCs have in 
their inventory but are not currently using.

Included debug code for modders as a template for their own changes.

The beam of the optional ZRP flashlight has a longer reach.


******************************************************************************
******* ZRP Game Bug fixes: ******* 
******************************************************************************
1.05:  Spots for Petruha's buddies, Agroprom soldiers (after detection).  See 
the ZRP_Test_ReadMe.txt file for other changes.

1.04c:  Added support for 1.0005.

1.04:  Repeating event fixes:  Skull's group examines the Freedomer bodies only 
once and the Dark Valley scam only goes down once.  (*Requires new game.)

1.03:  Tuskanos are now considered enemies of the human NPCs.

1.02:  Fox won't immediately go into alert mode after you heal him.

1.02:  Fewer location markers remain after quest completion.  This may require 
loading a game, saving, then loading the saved game.  Let us know on others.

Helicopter noise ends in Dark Valley level at the end of the scripted fly-over 
after returning from X18. (Yantar choppers fixed via all.spawn, below.) 

The conversation with Bes in Garbage does not loop.

The +30 burn protection artifact is correctly called "Shell" instead of 
"Battery". 

The ecologist's mutant quests are fixed.

There are several new quests available, like the "Kill the stalker from the 
Monolith faction" autoquest (no need for return) in Red Forest.

Max really gives you the Desert Eagle (Black Kite) when you complete a certain 
quest. 

The "Find X16 documents" marker tip no longer says "no hint".

You can exit the Agroprom tunnels either way and still get task completion 
credit by the time you talk to the barkeep.

The wounded-NPC perfect-gun exploit fixed.

Many, many, many typos and bad translations (e.g., cellar instead of attic). 

And of course, all the bug fixes in bardak's bug fix attempt.  These include 
the following:

Fixed quests:  "Protect barrier from mutants", Lukash's Skull camp quest [with 
NatVac update] (You can complete the "eliminate Skull group" quest even if you 
save/reload in the middle of the fighting), Army Warehouse village bloodsucker 
quests.

Fixed spawns:  Some NPC "campfire BBQ" spawns, wrong Pripyat communities, wrong 
Cordon bloodsucker smart terrain info, some NPC same-spot "collision" spawn 
deaths.

Reputation won't flip back and forth between excellent and terrible, so you can 
more easily get a different Wish-Granter ending if desired.

No more marked-but-empty secret stashes.

Fanatic's rookie group now acts the way it is supposed to.

You can only get one secret at most from a corpse.

Also fixed:  Duty reaction to firing at enemies in the Bar, a Pripyat crash, 
corpse perfect-weapon exploit, and additional bugs.

Several other bfa crash fixes are now a part of the patches since 1.0004.


******************************************************************************
******* Game Bug fixes in all.spawn (requires new game): ******* 
******************************************************************************

1.05:  Corrected typos reported by Alex-Tommy, barin, EggChen and others.  See 
the ZRP_Test_ReadMe.txt file for other changes.

1.05:  Added level changers and tweaks to support free play, TZIO.

1.05:  Fixed merc camp waypoint crash in Army Warehouses.

1.05:  Removed ability to change levels from wrong side of gate in Dark Valley 
to the Cordon.  (Reported by Snowball.)

1.05:  Made certain Agroprom soldiers behave on HUD mini-map like the rest.

1.02:  Removed teleport at end of Pripyat stadium cutscene; you no longer 
immediately change levels to Chernobyl NPP after the stadium cutscene.

1.02:  Skull's quest to kill the sniper will now fail if Skull is killed first.

1.02:  Fixed ducking-causes-level-change near guard tower in northeast corner 
of military base in southwest Agroprom.

1.02:  Fixed return from Dark Valley to Garbage; no more prompt to return to DV.

1.02:  Removed helicopter noise from Yantar level after scripted attack on 
zombies.

bfa: Fixed merc attack on stalker campsite in Army warehouses, re-broken by 
patch 1.0004 after being fixed in 1.0003 bfa.

bfa: Fixed controller spawns in Pripyat (typos fixed).

bfa: Fixed boars camp in the Garbage.

******************************************************************************
******* Annoyances addressed: ******* 
******************************************************************************

Bar guard, bar drunk, Snitch, bar bouncer, and Sakharov no longer repeat those 
phrases.  Others can be added; see ZRP_ModdingNotes.txt.

It is easier to select "eat" or "use" on the right-mouse-button popup menu in 
inventory.

Over-the-top background battle sounds in Pripyat silenced or replaced with 
wind.


******************************************************************************
******* Interface changes: ******* 
******************************************************************************

Quick named save: There is a menu button on the Save screen that permits you to 
make a quick "levelname_datestamp" save almost as quickly as quicksave. I 
recommend using this feature at the beginning of a level and just before going 
to another level. If you find making named saves inconvenient, it also helps to 
"snapshot" your progress from time to time, like just before and just after a 
major quest.

1.02:  The keyboard shortcut for this quick named save is Esc, S.  The Esc 
(escape) key brings up the main menu, and S then saves the game and closes 
the menu.

When discussing quests with quest-givers like Sid or the Barkeep, you can now 
bypass a quest that you do not wish to do. Just select the quest, and its 
description will appear with the possible rewards. Now there will be three menu 
choices instead of two. The new third choice is "I do not want that task."  
Selecting this choice will defer the task until the idle_time has elapsed, at 
least one day. You can then select the next task in line, if one is available 
from the same category. 

Quests and secrets are marked by colored text.  Quest updates are now added to 
the Message History.

Inventory, trade, and corpse and stash search screens have more squares on the 
grids to reduce scrolling. 

PDA Log and Message History links are lowered to above the main link bar. While 
this is not currently aesthetic, it is extremely functional.  If you don't like 
it, see ZRP_ModdingNotes.txt.

The "Last save" option is moved to the top of the initial menu. 

Quitting the game from the main menu does not prompt you for confirmation, nor 
does loading the last save after being killed (duh). 

Save game name field lowered. 

For modders:  Some added debug support.  Press ESC followed by TAB to toggle 
rs_stats, and press ESC followed by D to toggle the on-screen actor location 
data in the upper right.  Adjust it for your own needs.


******************************************************************************
******* Gameplay changes: ******* 
******************************************************************************

Many of these features are easily changed by the Modifier program.

Optional: Weapons are much less frequently dropped by NPCs (non-playing 
characters); instead the weapon is stored in the backpack. Exceptions are 
unique weapons, quest items, rocket launchers and gauss guns. Regular weapons 
will be dropped when NPCs die while reloading or "transitioning" the weapon. 
Note: See the ZRP_ModdingNotes.txt file to change this, or use the Modifier 
program.  (Default is normal dropped weapons.)

Corpses disappear after four configurable game hours, after you leave a level.

Quests have a three-day default time limit, but changing this is as simple as 
changing a number in a text file. It can be two days, 10 days, or no time limit 
(0). Some additional quests have been re-enabled or fixed. Auto-quests also 
have a separate time limit, defaulting to 0 -- no time limit. Generally, until 
you claim the reward, the quest will not be re-issued. There are fewer 
auto-quests; the former "eliminate camp" auto-quests are now available from the 
quest's source via dialog. You can also disable auto-quests entirely. Sid's 
auto-quests do not need returns for reward.

You can also set the time that must elapse before a quest can be given again.

Many more quests, and more coming with efforts from others.

Secrets are generally less boring to read. (Yeah, I know -- that's not saying 
much.) 

Secrets show the zone where they can be found with a level abbreviation prefix 
in your PDA's Message History. The notice will stay on the screen a bit longer 
when you get the secret, and you can make it longer or shorter. (Stash contents 
listing is optional.) Stash emptying also shows what secret you are claiming. 

Zombies run from grenades a lot more slowly. 

You can complete the Strelok quest. (Requires new game.) 

Skinflint will offer you the village bloodsucker quest even if you have talked 
to the cook.

Ammo found on bodies in later levels are more likely to be armor-piercing. If 
you encounter a rocket launcher dude, he is more likely to have rockets in his 
backpack. (Optional; enabled by default)

Other optional enhancements (NOT DEFAULT):

There can be more combatants in later levels who use armor-piercing ammo. 
(Requires new game and optional gameplay files moved out of the 
gameplay\optional directory) 

Wolf can start off with an AK74 and AP ammo.  He can use it later in the game. 
Fox can get a better shotgun, but it doesn't help him much. (Requires new game 
and OPTIONAL gameplay files moved out of the gameplay\optional directory) 


******************************************************************************
******* Under the covers: ******* 
******************************************************************************

Slightly less memory usage, due to some optimizations. There should be somewhat 
less lag later in the game, since no-longer-needed resources are removed more 
often.

The check for critical items during inventory changes is much more efficient. 
You should see a difference in some level transitions; synchronizing should be 
a bit faster.  Note: The IG2007/Dunin ammo fix might slow this down a bit.


===============================================================
Special Note: A lot of issues are still not fixed. Quite a few may not ever be 
fixed without an official game engine update. But a few should be correctable 
via modifications to scripts, configuration files, and the all.spawn 
configuration file.

******* Some known but currently unresolved issues: ******* 

Some "crash to desktop" (CTD) problems are not fixed and may require an engine 
change to eliminate them.  See the docs\ZRP_ModdingNotes.txt file for details.

Patch 1.0004 has some instabilities introduced with the relaxed smart_terrains 
and the deferred object processing in a separate thread.  Some results are 
benign, like late smoke puffs and out-of-sync movies*, while others result in 
a crash to desktop, like the destruction of an object while an NPC is trying 
to evaluate it, or an NPC or creature getting "lost" and unable to find a 
waypoint.  Although these are rare, please save often, and use the quick named 
save feature every so often to permit you to find a game that works if the 
waypoint problem occurs.

When you break a metal box or crate, items will fall from the broken container, 
and if you are on an upper floor, they will fall to a floor below.  A fix is in 
place to improve the situation.

Bodies will occasionally collide with the floor and disappear.  They can still 
be searched; move over the spot in the HUD radar.  You may even be able to pick 
them up via Shift-Use (default: Shift-F or Shift-Enter).

Climbing a ladder will put away rifles.  Changing levels when climbing a ladder 
will put you on the new level with binoculars in this case. Tip:  Sometimes 
jumping up in front of the ladder (e.g., below Mole's Agroprom entrance) will 
restore the slot-2 weapon in the next level.

The blue bar for psy health in inventory is the same color as the armor bar in 
the main heads-up display (HUD).

Items are always dropped from the inventory screen in the player's 0,0,1 
direction (usually to the north of the player).

Occasionally you might pass through a radiation zone and collide (maybe via 
jumping) with a radioactive source, so that you become permanently affected by 
radiation.  The only treatment is to load a saved game from prior to the 
contamination.

Dark Valley (and the Cordon) can have broken switches.  In the Cordon, the 
trader Sidorovich has a door that might not work; this is minor and can be 
worked around by bumping it.  But if the Dark Valley switches don't work, this 
can be corrected in 1.0004 either via a reload of the Garbage level prior to 
going to Dark Valley or by special patch, which can provide you with the needed
"keys" (info_portion flags) that the doors would normally provide.  (NOTE: This 
debug feature is now available as of 1.05.)

The disconnected lights are associated with the flashlights of the NPCs.  They 
remove the light during the day, but the lamp is not turned off, so it shines 
out of the location where the NPC spawned.  If you kill the NPC, the light goes 
away.  (NOTE: 080224 - possibly fixed with hack as of 1.05 test r4.)

The loosened "smart terrains" for creatures and NPCs in version 1.0004 results 
in extra alertness by NPCs. They won't talk to you until the threat is removed. 
Some quests will be harder to complete because the associated targets are 
either temporarily out of the zone or new members of the target group have come 
onto the level elsewhere.

At least two levels, l10u_bunker (the X19 Brain Scorcher underground level) and 
l12u_sarcofag (the NPP Sarcophagus level), are missing occlusion maps.  This 
means that the bad guys can hear you through walls, and they can shoot you 
through walls.

*Deferred object creation in separate threads in 1.0004 results in late smoke 
puffs from gunfire impacts, or even (in multi-core processor configurations) 
late spawning of NPCs and creatures, resulting in out-of-sync video or strange 
gameplay.